
## P2p v2.0 design

Spec evolution based on r&d into libp2p, go net libs, and friends.

### Node IDs and Keys
- Node (and account) ids should be their own public keys - greatly simplify design and tests - no need for key hash. A secp256k1 key is 32 bytes (like a 256bits hash anyhow.)
- Keys system is secp256k1 as it includes encrypt/decrypt
- We might switch to ed25519 based on crypto team review
- We use base58 encoding for string rep of keys (human readable)
- In proto messages keys/ids can be []byte - no need for string encoding /decoding as we are using a binary p2p format - greatly simplifies everything.

## up2p - The Unruly p2p protocol
To libp2p or not to libp2p?
- go-libp2p is not in a good shape: can't use utp, node ids must be multi-hashes (not pub keys), there are serious open issues, kad/dht seems problematic as well.
- go-libp2p should be viewed as a collection of p2p go utils that we can pick and chose from as needed.
- Some of their design decisions are not great and are derived from the ipfs product requirements.

### Transport
- tcp for now, udp or utp later

- All 

### Wire message format
We are using our own simple length-prefix binary format:

```
<32 bits big-endian data-length><message binary data (protobufs-bin-encoded)>
```

- We need to use length prefixed protobufs messages becuase protobufs data doesn't include length and we need this to allow multiple messages on the same tcp/ip connection .
see `p2p2.conn.go`.

### Network stack design
- 100% locks, mutexes and sync.* free - only using go channel concurrency patterns
- As little external deps as possible but don't rewrite enc code - bad idea.

### USwarm - Core P2P Server
- Server should be modular to support different transport protocols (mainly tcp, udp)
- Responsible for establishing sessions with neighbors on startup (connecting to peers and getting neighbors)
- Gets wire-format messages from the transport and decodes them to higher-level protobuf messages and routes them to receivers
- Maintains connections with other peers (for reuse)
- Maintain session info for sessions with other peers. Session data includes an ephemeral session key used for encrypting / decrypting p2p messages.
- Handles sessions disconnections and can create a session with a peer
- Encapsulate session and implements the session protocol
- Supports gossip protocol - sends a message to all neighbors on behalf of clients
- Can reuse non-expiring session ids when connecting to a new node (after disconnection)

### Unmarshaled top-level message format:

Session data:
```
data {
    sessionId: []byte      // if there's an established session between the peers, empty or missing otherwise
    payload: []byte        // encrypted bin data (binary protobuf) with sessoin key
    ... possible other fields ...
}
````




- Note that message only includes encrypted data and session id (random screen per session) and doesn't leak any other data
- payload is protocol-specific. e.g. session protocol or an app-level protocol.
- for app-level protocol it includes message-author data (might be diff than receiver)
- The p2p server is responsible to decrypt the payload using the local node private key or a session sym key for the session.

- The only connection with incoming data that doesn't have session id is a session protocol message
- All other messages will be rejected

### Handshake protocol (session protocol)
- Format: Encrypted protobufs binary data with the destination public key (id)
- Used to establish ephemeral session key between peers
- Used by the core p2p server to establish sessions with remote nodes

### Higher-level protocols

app-level protocol payload format:

```
payload {
    clientVersion  // sender client version
    sendTimestamp  // message sent time
    nonce          // used for mac
    mac            // auth that message data sent by claimed sender (sign of all params verifable via sender id/public key)
    gossip bool    // sender requests this message to be gossiped to neighbors
    data: []bytes  // message data []byte protobufs marshaled
}

data {
    clientVersion // author client version
    authorPubKey  // message writter pub key
    timestamp     // authored time
    nonce         // for mac
    mac           // all data bin sign by author
    protocol []string // protocol and message e.g.  ping/req/1.0
    reqId         // responses include req id for req callback on client
    /* ...protocol-specific fields go here... */
}
```

- Message is encrypted with session key
- Ony non-encrypted part as the session id (server knows which remote node is part of session)
- Message content is protobufs
- Message content include message author authenticated data (may be diff than sender)
- Protocol handlers register callbacks with the core server
- Server authenticate payload was sent by claimed sender
- Server authenticate data was created by claimed author
- Server calls the handler based on protocol / method message data for authenticated messages.
- Server may discard messages with a send timestamp that is too far aparat from local time.

### Basic flows
- An app-level p2p protocol wants to send a message to a node and process response.
- Protocol sends message to the core server
- The core server sends the message if it has a session with the remote peer or tries to establish a new session with a peer.
- The response is called back on protocol impl callback.

- App-level protocol can query the server for a list of active sessions or neighbor peers
- Appl-level protocol may send a gossip message to all neighbors using the core server


### Node discovery protocol (higher level kad/dht)
- Nodes discovery is just another app-level protocol - no need to special case it.
- We will implement go-kadh/dht for node discovery - critical piece of the p2p stack.

### Protocols discovery protocol
- Allows a node to query all the remote node implement protocols and their versions and decide which protocols to use with the remote node.
- Versioning is on the req processing level to allow updating req/resp for specific methods - no need for a global version for protocol
- Returned data includes:
    - ping/req/v1
    - ping/req/v2
    - hello/req/v1
    - node-discovery/req/v1
Based on this the node knows which req the remote nodes can process and which protocols - in this example, ping and hello.

### Session protocol
- Special protocol - used to establish an encrypted session between nodes.
